hi Jerry Campus here again with Omega
Chemical and I'm here today to talk to
you about the two-step washing system
the two-step system you probably heard
about it maybe use it you've been in the
fleet washing business for any length of
time you probably know a lot about it
let me tell you the most important thing
that goes through my mind when somebody
asks me about the two-step cleaning
system what's the two-step system how
does it work how can I get it to work
for me I heard it's the magic bullet
well what that says to me is if you need
a two-step system the product you got
isn't working what you're doing now is
not working a two-step system is a good
way to wash trucks there's good
chemistry in it there's a good chemical
reaction there what we call an
exothermic chemical reaction when the
alkali meets the acid and and that means
it gives off heat the chemical reaction
gives off heat but it should be a rare
rare occasion when you need that to
clean a vehicle or a fleet what that
means is the chemical that you've got
didn't do the job or you wouldn't need
the two-step system doesn't mean you
never need it it means you should rarely
need it if you have chemicals that are
doing what they're supposed to do in the
first place the problem is a lot of
people don't a lot of people have
products that are just formulated and
what what to me are strange ways with
just obvious failures and formulation an
obvious lack of understanding of the
chemistry that's involved and when you
combine the 10 years of experience that
we had in the truck washing business
with our knowledge of chemical
formulation that's when you can come up
with the kind of products that we have
because we know what they're supposed to
do the people that are out there our
competition are like people who are
making bullets who've never fired a gun
well you know can they make a good
bullet yeah hit and miss hit and miss
and unfortunately you may may have been
the victim of some of those misses the
advantages of the two-step system are
that it's powerful the chemical reaction
the acid would the alkali is a powerful
reaction that
there's more energy than the sum total
of either product so that's good
the disadvantages are that it costs more
because you're using two products when
one product should have done the job and
it takes more time it takes a lot more
time it takes twice as much time well it
takes a lot more time because you're
applying two products instead of one and
then you're rinsing
so it takes considerably more time and
also it takes a lot of experience to
know when that two-step system needs to
be employed you can't always tell just
by looking the bottom line when it comes
to two-step chemicals when it comes to
the two-step process
ninety-eight ninety-five percent of the
time I'll be safe ninety-five percent of
the time you shouldn't need it if you've
got a good alkaline truck wash and a
good aluminum brightener and we make
some videos on those then you shouldn't
need it when you do fine it should be
there and we'll talk some more about it
about the manifold systems that we've
designed on our website where you can
see how to apply both of those chemicals
through one injector so check out the
website we'll make a chemical calm and
if you have any specific questions feel
free to give me a call and I'll do my
best to get free talking thanks very
much for watching this video I
appreciate